These are problems known to exist at the time of this release. Feel free to
join in and help us correct one or more of these! Also be sure to check the
changelog of the current development status, as one or more of these problems
may have been fixed since this was written!

22. Sending files to a FTP server using curl on VMS, might lead to curl
  complaining on "unaligned file size" on completion. The problem is related
  to VMS file structures and the perceived file sizes stat() returns. A
  possible fix would involve sending a "STRU VMS" command.
  http://sourceforge.net/support/tracker.php?aid=1156287
  
21. FTP ASCII transfers do not follow RFC959. They don't convert the data
   accordingly (not for sending nor for receiving). RFC 959 section 3.1.1.1
   clearly describes how this should be done:

     The sender converts the data from an internal character representation to
     the standard 8-bit NVT-ASCII representation (see the Telnet
     specification).  The receiver will convert the data from the standard
     form to his own internal form.

20. valgrind errors occur too often when 'make test' is used. It is because
  too many third-party libs and tools have problems. When curl is built
  without --disable-shared, the testing is done with a front-end script which
  makes the valgrind testing include (ba)sh as well and that often causes
  valgrind errors. Either we improve the valgrind error scanner a lot to
  better identify (lib)curl errors only, or we disable valgrind checking by
  default.

19. FTP 3rd party transfers with the multi interface doesn't work. Test:
  define CURL_MULTIEASY, rebuild curl, run test case 230 - 232.

18. test case 57 has </test> that should be </client> but when corrected, the
  test case fails!

16. FTP URLs passed to curl may contain NUL (0x00) in the RFC 1738 <user>,
  <password>, and <fpath> components, encoded as "%00".  The problem is that
  curl_unescape does not detect this, but instead returns a shortened C
  string.  From a strict FTP protocol standpoint, NUL is a valid character
  within RFC 959 <string>, so the way to handle this correctly in curl would
  be to use a data structure other than a plain C string, one that can handle
  embedded NUL characters.  From a practical standpoint, most FTP servers
  would not meaningfully support NUL characters within RFC 959 <string>,
  anyway (e.g., UNIX pathnames may not contain NUL).

15. Test case 241 fails on all systems that support IPv6 but that don't have
  the host name 'ip6-localhost' in /etc/hosts (or similar) since the test case
  uses that host name to test the IPv6 name to address resolver.

14. Test case 165 might fail on system which has libidn present, but with an
  old iconv version (2.1.3 is a known bad version), since it doesn't recognize
  the charset when named ISO8859-1. Changing the name to ISO-8859-1 makes the
  test pass, but instead makes it fail on Solaris hosts that use its native
  iconv.

13. curl version 7.12.2 fails on AIX if compiled with --enable-ares.
  The workaround is to combine --enable-ares with --disable-shared

12. When connecting to a SOCKS proxy, the (connect) timeout is not properly
  acknowledged after the actual TCP connect (during the SOCKS "negotiate"
  phase). Pointed out by Lucas. Fix: need to select() and timeout properly.

11. Using configure --disable-[protocol] may cause 'make test' to fail for
  tests using the disabled protocol(s).

10. To get HTTP Negotiate authentication to work fine, you need to provide a
  (fake) user name (this concerns both curl and the lib) because the code
  wrongly only considers authentication if there's a user name provided.
  Bug report #1004841. How? http://curl.haxx.se/mail/lib-2004-08/0182.html

9. --limit-rate using -d or -F does not work. This is because the limit logic
  is provided by the curl app in its read/write callbacks, and when doing
  -d/-F the callbacks aren't used! Bug report #921395.

8. Doing resumed upload over HTTP does not work with '-C -', because curl
  doesn't do a HEAD first to get the initial size. This needs to be done
  manually for HTTP PUT resume to work, and then '-C [index]'.

7. CURLOPT_USERPWD and CURLOPT_PROXYUSERPWD have no way of providing user names
  that contain a colon. This can't be fixed easily in a backwards compatible
  way without adding new options (and then, they should most probably allow
  setting user name and password separately).

6. libcurl ignores empty path parts in FTP URLs, whereas RFC1738 states that
  such parts should be sent to the server as 'CWD ' (without an argument).
  The only exception to this rule, is that we knowingly break this if the
  empty part is first in the path, as then we use the double slashes to
  indicate that the user wants to reach the root dir (this exception SHALL
  remain even when this bug is fixed).

5. libcurl doesn't treat the content-length of compressed data properly, as
  it seems HTTP servers send the *uncompressed* length in that header and
  libcurl thinks of it as the *compressed* length. Some explanations are here:
  http://curl.haxx.se/mail/lib-2003-06/0146.html

3. GOPHER transfers seem broken

2. If a HTTP server responds to a HEAD request and includes a body (thus
  violating the RFC2616), curl won't wait to read the response but just stop
  reading and return back. If a second request (let's assume a GET) is then
  immediately made to the same server again, the connection will be re-used
  fine of course, and the second request will be sent off but when the
  response is to get read, the previous response-body is what curl will read
  and havoc is what happens.
  More details on this is found in this libcurl mailing list thread:
  http://curl.haxx.se/mail/lib-2002-08/0000.html
